---
date: "2017-05-06"
title: "Writage: A Markdown Editor"
---

Markdown Editing
================

[Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) “allows you to write
using an easy-to-read, easy-to-write plain text format, then convert it to
structurally valid XHTML (or HTML)”. Which is the reason why I chose it but I
hadn’t realised how important the editing software was going to be.

My keyboard attached systems are Windows based. So my first choice for editor
was Notepad as it fitted with the “easy-to-read, easy-to-write plain text
format” idea. I quickly found it too primitive. Perhaps WordPad would have been
a better choice – after finding Writage I have no incentive to try an
alternative.

By primitive I mean that spell-checking and basic word-processing features are
missing. This would be fine if I could spell and effectively proof read my own
copy. Sadly I cannot. My next choice was Notepad++. It proved difficult, but not
impossible, to get spelling to work. WYSIWYG was a problem though – it was, as a
former colleague of mine described another product, WIGIWWGY (What You Get Is
What We Give You). Notepad++ is just not good enough either.

What I wanted was something like Microsoft Word. So I consulted [the
oracle](https://www.google.co.uk/) and found [Writage](http://www.writage.com/).

Writage
-------

“The main idea of Writage is providing opportunity to write in Markdown to those
who like Microsoft Word. There are lots of Markdown editors […] who like to have
minimalistic, distraction-free interface. And there is nothing for those who
prefer to use rich interface and features of Microsoft Word.”

Writage is easy to install and easy to use. The only problem that I discovered,
mostly a classic *replace user and try again* problem, is creating a new
document and then pasting raw markdown into it doesn’t work. Either create a new
document in Word and then use the normal text styles, or open the raw markdown
document from file explorer (which automatically opens Word) first and then edit
it.
